SEQUENCE :
	 Sequence is a set of integers 1, 2, 3, … that are generated and supported by some database systems to produce unique values on demand.

CREATE SEQUENCE sequence_name
START WITH initial_value
INCREMENT BY increment_value
MINVALUE minimum value
MAXVALUE maximum value
CYCLE|NOCYCLE ;


cycle: When sequence reaches its set_limit 
	it starts from beginning.

nocycle: An exception will be thrown 
	 if sequence exceeds its max_value.

----Create Sequence

create sequence seq1
start with 10
increment by 10
minvalue 10
maxvalue 100
nocycle;

create table demoseq
(
	id number(10),
	id2 number(20)
);

insert into demoseq values(seq1.nextval, 100);
insert into demoseq values(seq1.nextval, 100);

sequence query creating sequence in descending order:

CREATE SEQUENCE seq2
start with 100
increment by -1
minvalue 1
maxvalue 100
cycle 20;


----Alter Sequence
	alter sequence seq1 maxvalue 200;
	alter sequence seq1 increment by 100;
	alter sequence seq1 nocycle;


----Drop Sequence
	 drop sequence seq2;



FAQ for sequence:

	 While creating a sequence, what does cache and 	nocache options mean? For example, you could 	create a sequence with a cache of 20 Or you could 	create the same sequence with the nocache option?

ANS:-	 With respect to a sequence, the cache option specifies how many sequence values will be stored in memory for faster access.

The downside of creating a sequence with a cache is that if a system failure occurs, all cached sequence values that have not be used, will be "lost". This results in a "gap" in the assigned sequence values. When the system comes back up, Oracle will cache new numbers from where it left off in the sequence, ignoring the so called "lost" sequence values.

TIP: To recover the lost sequence values, you can always 	execute an ALTER SEQUENCE command to reset the 	counter to the correct value.

Nocache means that none of the sequence values are stored in memory. This option may sacrifice some performance, however, you should not encounter a gap in the assigned sequence values.


